1)what is exception handling?
ans - Exception handling in Python is a mechanism that allows a program to deal with unexpected situations or errors (exceptions) that occur during the execution of a program.
It prevents the program from crashing and gives you the opportunity to handle these errors in a controlled way.

2)Syntax error 
ans - Syntax errors in Python occur when the code violates the language’s grammatical rules. 
These errors are detected by the Python interpreter at the time the code is parsed, before the program starts running. 
Unlike exceptions (which occur during execution), syntax errors prevent the code from being executed at all.

3)Runtime errors
ans - Runtime errors in Python are errors that occur during the execution of a program.
Unlike syntax errors (which prevent a program from starting), runtime errors happen while the program is running. 
These errors cause the program to stop abruptly if not handled, as they occur due to issues like invalid operations, memory issues, or incorrect user input.

4)what is exception?
ans-An exception in Python (and in programming in general) is an event that occurs during the execution of a program that disrupts its normal flow.
Exceptions typically occur when the program encounters something unexpected, like trying to divide by zero, accessing a non-existent file, or converting an invalid value.
When an exception is raised,it can either stop the program or be handled gracefully using exception handling techniques.

5)some Built-in python exception handling are
i)Syntax error : when the code does not meet the python's grametical rule is called syntax error
ex - 
a=10
if(a<10)
  print("it is greater than 10")
#so if observe above code where in if condition there is no colon after the if condtion 
#so it raises sytax error

ii)Type error - it occurs due to addition of diffrent kind of type like str and int
ex - 
a=10
b="devara"
print(a+b)
#output - type error

iii)Name error - if you are trying to acces a variable or functionit does not exist then u get name error
ex - 
myname="devaraja"
print(mynam)
#output - NameError - 

iv)IndexError - if ur trying to acces objects which is out of from the objects length.here objects
in the sense it might be list, or set
ex - 
animal=["lion","ant","dog","tiger"]
print(animal[3])
print(animal[5])
#output IndexError - list index out of range

v)ValueError - if ur trying to convert diffrent type of value some other type.like converting str to int or float
ex - 
a="def"
b=int(a)
print(b)
#output - ValueError 

vi)IOError - input output error
ex - 
try:
    with open("hello.py", "r") as f:
        content = f.read()
except IOError:
    print("The file you are trying to access does not exist")
#output - IOError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'hello.py'

vii)import error - while ur tyring to acces the file or module which does not exist
import kbc
k=10
print(kbc.k)

so how to handle these things i have the way tp ahdnle these things
so the synatx for this is
ex - 
try : 
    a=10
    b=21
    c="we"
    print(a+b+c)
except TypeError :
    print("u can't string and int values")
else:
    print("The above code has no error")
finally :
    print("all okay")


